# Self Replicating Web Page

This web page constitutes a minimal self-replicating page.  It contains the code required to edit itself and replicate itself, making it into an evolving document which can propagate freely across the open web.  This system relies on a "trust everyone" model in which all users on the web can edit, copy, delete and fork all documents.  Back everything up offline.  Never post anything personal or private.

All code on this page can be edited in situ using the [code editor](editor.php).  The main page is index.html as is standard on the Web.  Index.html reads the markdown file [README.md](README.md) and uses the javascript library [showdown.js](http://showdownjs.com/) to convert the [markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) to html and put it in a simple text format.  Two php scripts, [fileloader.php](php/fileloader.txt) and [filesaver.php](php/filesaver.txt), are used to save and load files on the server from the client side using javascript which accesses these programs with [XMLHttpRequest](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XMLHttpRequest), and these are what enable [editor.php](php/editor.txt) to edit all the files. Dnagenerator.php scans the files on the web page and saves them as a JSON file in [data/dna.txt](data/dna.txt).  All php scripts are stored in plain text in the php directory as php/*.txt so that they can be read from the open Web as well as edited without losing functionality while they are edited(enabling editor.php to edit php/editor.txt without breaking itself).  The php script text2php converts all the text files in php into php files in the main web directory which can then be run.  Replicator.php is a php script which references the global url for data/dna.txt and uses it to fetch all the individual files from a server anywhere on the open web, copying them to the local directory wherever the php script replicator.php exists. 

To replicate this page, put copy the code at [php/replicator.txt](php/replicator.txt) into a file called replicator.php in the main web directory of a web server that has php running(which they generally all do).  Then point a browser to [address of your web server]/replicator.php.  Click on the link.  Then edit the code in the new page using editor.php, and use the editor to change the contents of the new replicator to point to the dna.txt file on your new web server.  The new code on the new server can now in principle seed an entire network of self-replicating pages with no reference to any previously existing code repositories or pages.




